Today we are with Iñaki Pelegrí.
Thank you very much for being with
us today.
It will be very interesting
and enriching for everyone.
Iñaki is an entrepreneur in the
gyms sector.
I don't know if you call it that way.
Yes, the gym industry.
It is called.
Good afternoon and a pleasure
to be with you.
First, tell us what you are doing and
then we go into the matter.
and Genius.
I work in a company that
runs four centers
as franchisees.
Altavit is a chain of gyms.
Well, it is the chain that has
the most centers in Spain of
41 centers and we manage four
of them in the figure of franchise.
of the franchise.
Well well perfect.
Someday we will talk about that because
it is a very interesting topic the
relationship of
franchise-franchise with the chain
that provides you, etc.
Well, someday we will see it.
and Genius.
When you want, you are available here.
We will call you again.
Well, Iñaki come and go.
What we're going to do
is draw the value curve
of the gym sector.
and perfect.
So, the first thing we will do
is, let's identify what are
the competitive factors
to the variables.
That is, what are the factors in
which you invest, well, you
and all the competitors, all
invest, and which are the ones
that determine the value offered
by the customers, the factors
also by which, from the
point of view of the customers,
since we choose one gym
or choose another.
Which would be?
We will see them one by one.
and perfect.
One of the most important things, the bigger
thing, is the price.
There are many segments within the sector
and, the giant, because the price
varies greatly from one to the other.
The convenience is also important,
that is, the place where the
gym is by proximity and
others, good, then, the giant,
by rent depending on the area
where it is, the local
size, etc.
Then another of the important
factors is the sports equipment,
the staff, the giant that the
gym has, to give more or
less personalized attention.
The subject of the directed classes is
very important.
Classes would also be
related to staff, right?
If you have to give classes...
It depends, because there are several.
We don't do it because we don'
t like it, but there are many
chains that offer virtual
classes.
That is, they are the service of
directed activities, but they do
not have personnel for it.
The staff is, in a video, a
projection that, logically,
can be given at any time.
You bet on that, logically.
So, I said, did you say
the price?
It is clear.
This is a sector where there is
a sensitivity to the price.
The convenience, really the gym
is chosen many times for convenience,
it is chosen because it guides you
close to your work, your home,
whatever it is.
You've talked about equipment, which
is all the investment you make in machinery,
then, of all kinds, isn't it?
I also think it is a lot of money.
Have you talked about personal care?
That is where we could also
put personal training.
Some chains, then, are more powerful
than others.
The collective classes.
And I would tell you there is maybe another,
well, there is some more, but there is
one that is like it is in the local, right?
That is, what you do, that is not
really the sports equipment,
but the environment.
Yes, yes, that could be considered
also effectively the design, the
environment that is in a local.
This can also be considered a factor.
This is important from the
customer's point of view as well.
Whether it is pleasant or not,
there is a difference.
It depends on the segment
within the sector.
The manager is more important in one
premium segment than in another, the
manager who at the end is more
important the price.
actually is.
That is.
Is the time a factor you compete
with or not?
The timetable, well, is that
the truth is that the timetables
are now very wide in most chains.
That is, now whoever says he doesn'
t have time to go to the gym
really, I don't believe it.
This is a reason that is not sustainable.
We, for example, open from seven
in the morning to ten and a half eleven
in the evening, in the end of the
zones and others.
That is, that at the end of the
day is a very, very wide schedule
and it is a manager, because at
that time you can always come as often
as you want, be as long as you want.
All of you have invested in the
schedule.
This is that...
actually is.
Well, by the way...
In the end, he is also the manager.
The more hours you have open, the
more people you need to
cover the hours.
More cost of.
How is the sector?
I see the sector well.
I see it because, well, you see
it.
This is what you see with the competitors,
with the players who are entering the
game.
Three, four years ago, well,
there was, the manager, there
were chains of gyms, but
now they are entering many.
And the truth that, well, because it is
a time that the truth that will be interesting
because there is more and more
competition, more competitors, forgives.
And logically, we each
have to win and fidelize our
customers to continue to grow.
I think the sector still
has a lot of opportunities to grow.
I think they are effectively entering
chains that, well, because they will
continue to enter during these months,
these years and so on.
And that's something, well, as you
know, because people are very fashionable.
The theme of fitness, health,
care and more.
It is increasingly demanded by
society.
I have no doubt.
I think...
The market will grow.
What happens is that what the
market is that we will see in subsequent
courses is a red ocean because
there are more and more
competitors, you have to make
more efforts.
Look at what you said.
We all have to open for a
lot of hours.
If you don't open for a long time, then now.
The search for differentiation
is permanent.
Let's see one thing.
What are the competitors segments?
I think we can divide it into
four segments.
This is the premium segment.
The one with a higher price, well,
there are a number of more personalized
services.
Then there is what's been sticking
stronger for three years,
which are low cost gyms.
Then there are the convenience
gyms, life-long neighborhood
gyms, which are smaller.
And it's true that they are suffering
a lot, especially with the big
chains of crazy people coming in.
Sorry to cut you.
What you say about convenience
gyms, I know a chain of
convenience gyms
that is fine, but, in fact,
they are generally decreasing.
This is explained very well.
If we put ourselves in the generic strategies
of what Michael Porter told
us, you have to choose whether
they buy you for being better or
for being cheaper.
If you stay in the middle, you
are there.
And it's also that it has happened
to many because in the same neighborhood
you have a gym that costs 80
euros, great, with a pool, with
some bestial services.
If you want to spend 80 euros, go to
that.
And then you have the low cost
chains, which have far more economical prices.
And then, who goes to the neighborhood
gym that costs 45?
What is older?
What so?
No one goes.
No, it is complicated.
The truth is that they have it difficult.
In the end, what I will do is differentiate
from some other way and a more
personalized and other treatment.
Of course, it depends on the agency
the possibilities you have.
But it is true that for them the
time is difficult.
They should almost become, for
example, niches.
For example, they specialize
in muscular training.
actually is.
What happens is that that leads us
to the fourth segment we were talking
about, which is a bit of the boutiques.
It will be practically this, but
logically much more novel.
That is, a much more personalized
treatment, of very specific services.
What happens is that in the end...
A shop, what do you mean?
Is it a typical gym where you're going
to do yoga or just boxing?
That is.
It is much more fashionable in the United
States or the United Kingdom, but
it is finally coming to Spain.
And probably here in a few months or
a few years, a few months I would say,
I'm sure it'll hit strong.
In the end, what they really want
to do is differentiate themselves
from the rest.
They will give you a very good service, of
something very specific.
And there are people, of course, who
are willing to pay for it.
This is a niche strategy
or segmentation strategy.
We have seen the competitive factors.
We said it was the price, convenience,
the environment, the size of
the premises.
It hasn't come out, but it should
be one, maybe, because there
are bigger than smaller.
What you invest in sports equipment,
in machinery.
What you invest in staff.
And then the schedule, we said.
The schedule will be the same for everyone,
more or less.
and the services.
They are competitive factors.
We will draw the curve of each
of the elements.
What are the premium gyms?
Premium gyms, logically,
would have a much higher
price than the rest.
How much more or less?
It may cost you a portion of the fee.
300 to 400 euros of registration.
Then a monthly fee between 120 and
200 euros approximately.
well is.
More or less.
They offer a lot of level of everything, right?
of everything.
Absolutely of everything.
Especially the first sports equipment.
The latest technology, the best
machines.
A lot of staff.
A lot of personalized attention.
and personal training.
and other.
The design, of course, too.
The Environment.
Then a class of guidance.
The very professional staff.
Very well formed, logically.
And in the end, that.
Giving a practically exclusive treatment
to your customers.
This is a clear differentiation strategy.
They invest in everything.
More than the others.
And offer a higher value doubt.
With higher prices.
and perfect.
and understood.
I think there are not many
in the industry.
I think they are not many.
They are not many.
But there are logically areas
too.
The areas where these customers
are usually installed are exclusive
or high purchasing power areas.
Of course, in fact.
Another factor is where you have the place.
Depending on the amount, the investment
is either greater or lesser.
Rental is not the same.
In a neighborhood cheaper than in
a prime area of a large city.
The clientle as well.
The clients.
Not just the income, but the purchasing
power of the people living in
the area.
That in the end, 80-90% are people
who live very close to you.
actually is.
Now for the low cost gyms.
That is.
The price of people is very
important.
People are the first thing they look at.
It gives less importance to the
rest.
It is true that people are increasingly...
There are many competitors
as mentioned.
In the end, you have to differentiate
yourself in some way.
People are always asking
for better services.
If you don't give it, it will go to someone
else who will probably give it.
Or maybe what you are looking for
can be found elsewhere for
the same price.
Yes, it is complicated then.
Are they gymnastics, I think they are big?
Yes, they are big.
It usually has between 1500 and 2000
meters approximately.
And what they actually do is that
they offer a very wide range of
services.
They have free weight, free clothes,
and free bodybuilding.
activities are directed.
And what allows you to do that is capture
a very large number of people.
And of all ages.
That is.
This critical mass allows you to end up
being profitable.
That is the volume.
And it is that it gives you the doors to
people who in their life had gone
to a gym for a price.
Because I wasn't willing to pay
60, 70 euros for a gym.
Something they didn't know they would
like.
And this gives you the option of
approving a gym at a very economical
price.
And that people, as they have
a variety of products or
services quite varied.
It gives you the chance.
You end up liking it.
People who haven't been to a gym.
In the end, he becomes a fan.
And that goes very often.
We are seeing this in other sectors.
in other activities.
We talked to Colvin'
s boys.
They have a marketplace in
the flower sector.
Very interesting.
You know him and so on.
When you go down a lot.
break the price barrier.
More people are entering
any sector.
In this case, it is the gym.
But in Colvin's case, it's buying
flowers.
You are generating new demand.
No one can buy 80.
And 20 or 25 people who have
not asked him.
Buy and get stuck.
Yes yes.
That is one of the tricks.
And I think actually.
of the greatest successes.
of the crazy.
The neighborhood gyms.
Let us draw.
The curve of premium gyms is
very clear.
It is above.
The curve of the madmen is down
in everything.
Less than the size of the gym.
As for personal attention.
You may have invested a lot of personal
attention.
Because you have enough people.
This creates a synergy.
Economy of scale.
Because there are so many customers.
You can afford this
investment.
Let us compare now.
Low cost gyms like yours.
With a gym.
A neighborhood gym.
How would it be?
It is true.
At least our chain.
We want to get rid of the
low cost.
Because in the end we offer a
cheap price.
But it is true that we are.
Trying to differentiate.
For example, among other things.
In personal dealings.
Having more people.
To get more attention to the public and others.
Technology to facilitate customers.
Applications and more.
In a low cost
gym.
compared to the subject.
The neighborhood gyms.
I think the gym is.
The problem is that at the
end.
Oh that.
A gym for people in the area.
As his name says.
What happens is the machine.
It is a little more outdated.
And what they offered.
It was a personalized treatment.
There is always the manager.
The one who carried it.
They used to be people.
You know the world of gymnastics.
He has trained a lot throughout
his life.
He knows well.
And that you can have a lot of deal.
And advise your clients very well.
Let them come.
That of the neighborhood.
and of the area.
I think there is a word to explain.
The competitive advantage they have.
The neighborhood gyms.
It is called a scale economy.
They are in a market.
In a market where.
The price sensitivity is high.
People are changing gym.
It costs from 40 to 20.
They go to 20.
It is a reality.
They have a clear competitive disadvantage.
The economy of scale.
You buy better.
You are part.
of a large group.
There are thousands of synergies.
In the management.
Especially the economy of scale.
In the purchase.
The size of the gym.
You have 1500 square meters.
And at the end.
There are many expenses.
It will affect more partners.
The neighborhood gym.
It has a small place.
All the machines are met.
There is no alpha.
It has a competitive disadvantage.
At the cost of that.
He cannot play with you.
To be cheaper.
It is impossible with the
structure it has.
It does not provide differentiation either.
The machines are old.
The only differentiation.
That is what we said.
in the neighborhood gyms.
More close relationships are established.
You know the owner of the gym.
You go for that.
But that is the only differentiation.
Actually it is the only one.
In my opinion.
Let us go to the last.
They are the boutique gyms.
They are growing in recent years.
This at the end.
It will be a step further.
The area of the neighborhood gym.
It will be something that will be different.
Because it will offer.
A very specific service.
for example.
Only pilates classes.
Only yoga classes.
Only cycle classes.
There are people at the end.
Going to the gym.
In a chain like ours.
Only go.
To enjoy a service.
It can be a specific
activity.
It could be Zumba or anything.
This is what they will do.
Specialize in that.
Employing the best professionals
in the sector.
In that.
Creating experiences every time
you go.
That you probably won't.
In a gym for a lifetime.
It is true that at the end.
There are many.
They are looking for something very specific.
They are very professional.
This is explained perfectly.
From the generic strategies.
Michael Porter, who was the author.
The first gyms.
They play differentiation.
Invest in everything.
The bestial experiences.
The low cost gym.
What they do is.
Reducing the investment.
In many factors.
As for the premium.
But thanks.
A huge economy of scale.
You are competitive.
You are getting better.
You can.
Investing in personnel.
You have better machines.
The economy of scale is very important.
Then there are the gyms.
They are competing in the niche strategy.
Let the people go.
Because what they want is that.
I want to box.
I want to go to a place.
Let him have that.
Because they will offer it to me.
Boxing is better.
That is the key.
It is clear.
And then they are.
I think we've done stacking the middle.
The shockers.
Those who are in the middle.
They have prices.
More expensive than yours.
They do not have the machinery.
They have the premium.
He is in a complicated situation.
This is the picture of the sector.
Totally agree.
and totally.
Nothing is.
A lot thanks.
We will talk again.
Because I have thousands of questions.
Thanks to you.
You know I am available.
For what you want.
Many thanks.
and an embrace.
Until then.